h1. Introduction

h2. What is snp.plotter? 

snp.plotter is an R package that creates publishable-quality plots of p-values using single SNP and/or haplotype data. Main features of the package include options to display a linkage disequilibrium (LD) plot and the ability to plot multiple sets of results simultaneously. Plots can be created using global and/or individual haplotype p-values along with single SNP p-values. Images are created as either "Portable Document Format (PDF)":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pdf or "Encapsulated (EPS) files":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encapsulated_PostScript.

h2. Who are the intended users of snp.plotter?

Researchers conducting gene association studies who need to create images showing results in the form of p-values of their work along with a "linkage disequilibrium":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linkage_disequilibrium plot to show the underlying structure of the study population. Because snp.plotter is a visualization tool, the type of study design used either family-based, case-control, or a combination is irrelevant.

h2. What are the main features of snp.plotter?

* Publishable-quality graphics in resolution-independent formats
* Free and open source
* Visualization of global or individual haplotype p-values
* Visualization of results either physically spaced or evenly spaced
* Ability to plot multiple sets of results
* Optional web interface
* Customizable parameters
** Labels
** Symbols
** Colors/color schemes
** LD metric
** P-value threshold
